---
layout: post
title:  "What do you mean 'uncertainty'?"
date:   2021-05-08T13:30:00-05:00
author: Nils
categories: Blog
---

Hello! I don't know how you found out about this blog, but I'm happy you're here.

Honestly, I don't really know myself what the contents the blog posts on this website will feature, but I do know that I'm somewhat "into uncertainty". What do I mean by that? Well, first of all I really enjoy working as a computational biologist and chasing after the uncertainty associated with observing certain patterns or effects. However, it's more than that. Uncertainty really is all around us. In the current pandemic many of us may have experienced this at a completely different level. We have lots of questions, like: When are we gonna get our normal lives back? Are we gonna get our normal lives back? Can I be sure that I am not infected with the virus when my rapid antigen test is negative? Is vaccine X safe? When will I be able to get vaccinated?

If people, like politicians or scientists, have tried to answer some of these questions, their answers usually leave some wiggle room. We often hear statements like: "There is a high chance that people below age X will be able to get vaccinated by Y." or "We can probably allow people to eat out at restaurants if the daily incidence is below X."

Well, but also in 'normal' times we face these situations. Maybe we are changing our jobs or moving to another place. We usually ask ourselves: "Am I going to be happy?", "Will I find new friends?" or "Will I be successful?".

As you can see, uncertainty really is all around us and the way we deal with it really defines us as humans. So this is what I hope to write about every now and then–a mixture of can we quantifiy uncertainty for some of these questions in a statistical sense, but also what does it do with us if we take decisions based on uncertain outcomes. So if I caught your interest, keep posted for more!
